Jekyll is a SSG, a Static Site Generator. Using a SSG is perfect if you want to make a Static website. Could be a blog for example. The SSG gives your Static Website some abilities that it otherwise lacks. The best one, according to me, is the posibility to divine your html main elements into different html-files. For example you can make one header.html where you have your header-element. You can then import the file into all your pages on your site, and when you need to make a change to it you just need to do it in one place. Another ability that I like is that you can write your html in markdown and then let the SSG transform it into html for you. For someone like me that is new to html this way is alot faster and easier.

If you want your static site to be a little more user interactive you can always use plug-ins for that and let other people take care of the security question about using data bases for example.
The Jekyll SSG comes with some plugins as default. If you want your visitors to be able to leave comments on your site, "disqus" is a good option. In Jekyll, which comes with the code for it as default, you only need to go to disqus.com and sigh up for an account and then its all set.

Jekyll SEO-tag is an Open Graph plugin that arrives with Jekyll. Just type in some basic data and Jekyll puts in the meta-tags in your HTML, that is needed for the Open Graph protocol to work.
The Open Graph protocol gives your site this functionality that you often can see when you share a link on social media. Instead of just the url you will get a box with some information and maybe a picture that represent the site, or the content on that page. This was first introduced by Facebook but today it's widely used and it works on almost all social media.